Introduction
This page tracks all Lacework environments, including Kubernetes clusters which power the environments.

Types of Environment
Normally an environment can be one of the following types:



prodn	Production	The environment type is serving or fully capable (for standby production environments) to serve Lacework production customers. 
preprod	Pre-production	The environment type is very similar to the production type but does not serve real customers. The type is used for final pre-flight tests before new software is deployed in production.
devtest	Development and testing	This type is normally associated with non-production environments used to develop and test the Lacework software


One major difference between prodn/preprod and devtest environments:

All devtest environments use completely isolated data storage layers (Kinesis, Aurora, S3 buckets, Snowflake) 
Prodn environments (prodn1, prodn2, prodn3) use a shared data storage layer (so-called "master" environment) so data processing services should be active only in one environments (this complicates the upgrade/deployment process)
Preprod environments (for now only preprod1) also use a shared storage layer (separate from prodn and other devtest environments)
"Master" Environments
In the situation when two or more environments can share the same set of stateful resources (like AWS S3 buckets, Aurora database, etc) the names of shared resources use so called "master" name. In all devtest environments the "master" name matches the name of the environment. The following are some exceptions:

prodn	prodn1, prodn2 and prodn3	
preprod	preprod1	
staging	staging1	
The master names are normally used as prefixes for shared resources. For example:

Non-shared S3 bucket managed by QA3 environment only: qa3-collector-lacework
Shared S3 bucket used by both PRODN1 and PRODN2 production environments: prodn-collector-lacework
Production Environments

prodn1	
Main production environment (it runs all production services, including batch processing jobs)

prodn2	Hot standby cluster for batch processing tasks running in prodn1 environment; active-active cluster (with prodn1) for agent data receiving pipeline (up to the storage in Kinesis).
prodn3	The environment hosts Beta version of Rainbow service (beta.lacework.net) only - it does not receive agent traffic or run any batch pipeline jobs
Development Environments
The following environments can be temporarily used (locked) by developers for testing of specific production features.

Developers need to use the following rules to lock an environment:

A development environment should be requested for a defined period of time (suggested 2-3 weeks) with ability to extend the locking period
The following table should be used by developers to manage a record of who is using which environment for how long and for what purpose
After the lock period for an environment has expired any developer can take it for testing (following the same locking procedure)
As a curtesy, please contact the current lock owner to make sure he/she no longer needs the environment
Locks should be per component so several developers can use the same environment for testing of non-overlapping components 

Locks should be manually extended/updated if the originally specified locking period is not enough

Johnny will review the locks with the team on weekly release meetings (normally held on Fridays)

If there is no available environment to use then escalate to Johnny (or Satya if Johnny is not available)

Development Environment Update Policy
The environment owner (see table below) is responsible for maintaining the environment.  DevOps will reset an environment to production labels and ensure it is operational under two conditions

When an environment changes owners
When an environment owner requests to DevOps to reset the environment to production labels.
All environments will be upgraded to the latest production labels on every database schema change




dev1	3.02	




Michael	
dev2	3.01	



Modeling team – Harish	
ACTIVE by Developers
dev4	3.02	
Automated Testing	22 Apr 2020 	22 Jul 2020 	Iris Team	Arpit	
qa1	3.01	

3/1/2020





3/30/2020



Krishnan




testing



qa2	v.k8sCpl	Iris, Rainbow, UI, Electra, QS, Shadow QS, Reporting	K8s data collector and k8s compliance	16 Mar 2020 	30 Apr 2020 	Bharath, Divyang, Mandar, Harish	Michael	
K8s data collector for bandwidth

qa4	
Iris, Rainbow UI, Electra Int Portal, QS, Shadow QS, Reporting, Alert Notif, Azure/GCP/AWS CFG Analyzer	AWS CT Testing	20 Apr 2020 	30 Apr 2020 	Krishnan	Arpit	AWS_CT testing
qa5	3.01	



NO OWNER.  Used by Dev/QA to fork production data	Michael	The environment is using LACEWORK Snowflake account (and not LWDEV as all other devtest environments)
qa7	3.01	
Cfg-data-collector, cfg-data-collector-scheduler, queueloader

Asset-Inventory

3/31/2019

5/30/2019

Swathi, 

Sagar  




qa8	3.01	s3-loader 	AgentServer pipeline	
4/6/2020

4/30/2020

Tasos


s3-loader migration to KCL 2.x

qa10	3.02	






qa11	3.02	



23 Mar 2020 

30 Apr 2020 	


QA Environments
The following environments are managed by the QA team only. No developer should ever make any changes in the environments without QA permission.

preprod1	preprod	Pre-production testing environment
staging1	staging	Pre-production testing environment
qa3	devtest	QA testing environment
qa9	devtest	India QA testing 
qa10	devtest	QA testing environment
TechOps Environments
qa6	devtest	Arpit	This environment is used by TechOps team as a playground for new feature & bug fixes testing.
qa1006	devtest	Arpit	DR env of QA6 env - hosted in US-EAST-1 region
Association of AWS accounts and environments
DevTest Environment Review

We are doing an environment review for Devtest Lacework Environments. The below table will be used to identify environments that are not in use, not required and can be decommissioned.



PREPROD1	QA	Required	

STAGING1	QA	Required	

DEV1

DEV	
Will decommission – any objections?  YES	
DEV2	DEV	


DEV3	DEV	
Will decommission – any objections?  YES	Decommissioned.   OPS-451 - decommission dev3 CLOSED
DEV4	DEV	Required	Primary environment for RBAC migration testing	Bharath R
DEV5	DEV	
Will decommission – any objections? YES	Decommissioned  OPS-452 - decommission dev5 CLOSED
QA1	DEV	
In Use	
QA2	DEV	
Will decommission – any objections?  YES	
QA3	QA	Required	Primary QA env	Satya
QA4	DEV	Required	Primary environment for RBAC testing	Bharath R
QA5	DEV	


QA6	DevOps	Required	This environment acts as the Playground for the DevOps team and is used daily.	Arpit Airan
QA7	DEV	Required	Environment for LQL Testing 	Swathi 
QA8	DEV	Required	AgentServer pipeline testing	Tasos
QA9	QA	Required	India QA env	
QA10	QA	
Will decommission – any objections? – Sumeet to confirm	
QA11	DEV	Required	Will decommission – any objections?  – Check with Hank - please do not decommission

QA1006	DevOps	Not Required	The environment was created for DR Project. However, we are not working on it as of now so we can STOP it till we start working on the DR project again. It is only running Aurora Read Replica for QA6 Environment.	
Arpit Airan

Decommissioned  OPS-442 - decommission qa1006 CLOSED
